by this Jeffry Paul Ross for next level
guitar calm continuing on in our
inspired by series we're working on some
post-war Chicago electric blue and we're
in the key of E now if you would like a
free video lesson with a corresponding
ebook please click on the link in the
text box below and we will send you the
free video lesson and free ebook from
next level guitar comm so just click on
that link below so we're going to start
off with this little double up in there
I've explored this in previous lessons
but we'll go over it again I'm using a
replica of a late 50s Gibson Les Paul
this guitar was made by the fret King
company with trevor wilkinson and this
is a copy of Peter greens Les Paul and
it's wired out-of-phase so it'll get
that sound we're gonna concentrate on
kind of like a like an early sixties
chest records kind of sound here and
we're in the key of E and we've got this
little double stop thing and you can
think of this in terms of you know your
chords
there's a little a minor triad that's
this is part of
so just in case you don't the notes are
you gonna have your first finger on the
seventh fret on the high E string it's a
B no right under the next fret you're
gonna have that genome so we're gonna
hit this four times hacen a little bit
you know okay and we're gonna alternate
that with these low bass wrists here
and those wrists would be the first one
will do we're going to start on this B
note on the a string on the second fret
with our second finger and then we're
gonna go up chromatically on the D
string then we're gonna hit the low E
string and we're gonna do that riff
first and go back to the little double
stop and then the next time we're gonna
walk up from the open a to the B
as you'll notice timewise I'm doing like
a little pickup note for the first riff
and at the end of each riff and then low
e-string there you have it now you can
make that into a song make it into a
progression
so on and so forth now if you want to
make a blues progression out of this
this little thing you can do going into
the four can do this little bass riff
open a third third fret fourth fret and
then you're gonna hit this key note on
the D string and that's the low angle
and then you can make this little piece
of a seven chord you can play it like
that
once again this has been Jeffrey Paul
Ross for next level guitar calm where we
do have over a thousand examples of
various types of guitar lessons starting
with beginners then intermediate and on
it through advanced so we'll see you
next time
you